Notes:

	Options, Futures and other derivative - John C Hull
	
	Chapter 1: Introduction
		Types of markets:
			1. Exchange traded markets
			2. Over-the-counter markets
			3. Forward contracts
			4. Future contracts
			5. Options
			6. Types of traders
			7. Hedgers 
			8. Speculators
			9. Arbitrageurs
			10. Dangers
			
		1.5 Options:
			A call option gives the holder the right to buy the underlying asset by a certain date for a certain price.
			A put option gives the holder the right to sell the underlying asset by a certain date for a certain price.
			The price of a call option decreases as the strike price increases
			The price of a put option increases as the strike price increases. 
			Both types of option tend to become more valuable as their time to maturity increases
			Types of participants in options market:
				1. Buyers of calls
				2. Sellers of calls
				3. Buyers of puts
				4. Sellers of puts.

                1.6 Types of traders:

                    There are 3 broad categories of traders:
                        1. Hedgers - use derivatives to reduce the risk that face from potential future movements in a market variable.
                        2. speculators - use them to bet on the future direction of a market variable.
                        3. arbitrageurs - take offsetting positions in two or more instruments to lock in a profit.

                    Labels used for hedge funds for the trading strategies followed by them:
                        1. Long/short equities: purchase the securities considered to be undervalued and short those considered to be overvalued
                        2. Convertible arbitrage: take a long position in a thought-to-be undervalued convertible bond, with an actively managed short position in the underlying equity
                        3. Distressed securities: but securities issued by companies which are in, or close to, bankruptcy
                        4. Emerging markets invest in debt and equity of companies in developing and emerging countries
                        5. Global Macro carry out trades which reflect the anticipated global macro-economic trends
                        6. Merger arbitrage: trade after a possible merger or acquisition is announced, so that profit is made if the announced deal takes place.

                1.7 Hedgers:

                    Hedging means having a backup plan to reduce risk, incase somethings goes wrong

                    Hedgers using forward contracts:
		
		Next action:
			-continue with the jon hull book
			-start reading quantlib docs
			
